
### Strength  
- **Heavy Armor I (50)** 
	When wearing heavy armor the player can make an additional saving throw to being knocked down or off balance.
  
- **Heavy Armor II (75, Heavy Armor I)** 
	When wearing heavy armor the player can make a Deflect Blow action for XX SP. Deflect Blow can be used as a save against any physical attack whose weapon is the same class or lower than the user’s armor class. If the player also has Deflect Blow from the Block Skill, the cost is cut in half as long as the attacking weapon class is at or below both the user’s shield and armor class.

- **Heavy Armor III (100, Heavy Armor II)** 
	When wearing heavy armor, the player gains the power Juggernaut. Once per day this power can be used to reduce an attack that would deal at least half the player’s maximum health to 0. For example, a player with 500 health can use this ability to stop any attack dealing at least 250 damage.  
  
### Perception  
- **Awareness I (50)** 
	The player gains the ability Focus. Once per day the player can roll twice on a Perception check and take the highest.

- **Awareness II (75, Awareness I)** 
	The player gains the ability Sixth Sense. Once per day when a Perception check is failed, the GM can give them a hint at what they missed with a single work, such as trap, switch, enemy, etc. Sixth Sense does not work on entities with a Stealth level of 75 or higher.  

- **Awareness III (100, Awareness II)** 
	Sixth Sense can be used three times per day, works on entities with Stealth up to 100 as well as those who are magically concealed. The GM will also tell the player a general direction the object or entity may be, and can be used to sense objects and entities that are magically concealed.  
  
### Endurance  
  
- **Resistance I (50)** 
	Once per day the character can reroll a failed Endurance save.  
  
- **Resistance II (75, Resistance I)**  
	The character chooses a resistance: poison, fire, frost, or shock. They take 25% less damage from attacks of that type.  
  
- **Resistance II (100, Resistance II)** 
	The player chooses an additional resistance at 25%, or can add to their previous resistance for a total of 50%. They also gain the ability Unkillable. If the player were to fall to 0 health they may make an Endurance check. Once per day, if they raise the standard TN they are reduced to 1 HP instead.  
  
### Charisma  
  
- **Natural Leader (50)** 
	Once per day, the character can activate this perk to allow an ally within 500 feet to reroll a failed reaction, save, Deception check, Intimidation check, or Persuade check. The ally takes the higher roll.

- **Personality I (50)** 
	The player can roll a Charisma check to make a more impactful first impression on someone. If the roll succeeds against a TN of 12, the character (gains a +1 to interactions? Can we do something more unique than this?)

- **Inspiring Presence (75, Natural Leader)** 
	Allies within 500 feet add 1/10th of this character’s Charisma level to their first core skill check each round.

- **Symbol of Hope (100, Inspiring Presence)**  
  
  
### Intelligence  
- **Light Armor I (50)** 
	When wearing light armor the player can reroll a failed spell skill check or contest once per day.  
  
- **Light Armor II (75, Light Armor I)** 
	While wearing light armor the player is more effective at spell casting, adding 1/10th of their Intelligence level to their skill checks when casting spells.  
  
- **Light Armor III (100, Light Armor II)**  
	While wearing light armor they gain the power Wind Caster. Once per day they may cast any Expert or lower spell that they know as a free action and at half the cost.  
  
### Agility  
- **Medium Armor I (50)**  
	When wearing medium armor the player can reroll a failed Evade check once per day.  
  
- **Medium Armor II (75)** 
	While wearing medium armor they become more evasive, decreasing their cost of using Evade by half after armor is accounted for.  
  
- **Medium Armor III (100)** 
	While wearing medium armor they gain the ability Escape Death. Once per day, if the player would be reduced to 0 health by an attack, ability, or spell, the health loss is reduced to 0.  
  
### Luck  
  
- **Close Call (50)** 
	Up to three times per day, whenever the character fails a non-Luck Attribute save, but does not botch, they may roll a LCK save and take the higher number.

- **Probability Manipulation I (75)** 
	The character gains a pool of points equal to 1/10th of their Luck level every day. These can be used to add or subtract from their own Attribute or Skill rolls, or those of any ally or enemy within 500 feet.

- **Miracle (100)** 
	Once per day the character can use the power Miracle to generate and use a fate scroll. The fate scroll generated can also instead be applied to an ally as if it were their own.

- **Probability Manipulation II (100, Probability Manipulation I)** 
	Triples the pool of points gained from the first level of this perk.