### Alteration

- Specialization I (50) 
	Choose a type of spell and gain the following effect. Armoring spells last one round longer. Detection spells give a +2 bonus to hit detected targets. Telekinetic spells can reach twice as far.

- Specialization II (75 Specialization I) 
	The spell type from Specialization I is modified further, choose any of the three options listed. Armoring spells either increase AR by an additional 10 points, recharge the user’s magicka by 25% of all reduced damage taken, or harm attackers by dealing 10% of the reduced damage back to them. Detection spells all detect enchanted items and magical anomalies in the area, detect twice as far away, or can be projected to up to two other friendly targets. Telekinetic spells can act as an extension of the user’s hands to allow fine movements like lockpicking, pickpocketing, or using weapons using the Alteration skill to make basic attacks; or throw objects twice as hard, dealing twice as much damage.

- Armor of Magnus (100) 
	Armoring spells that would bring the character’s AR above 80 can now bring it to a maximum of 85

- Specialization III (100, Specialization II)
	The specialized spell type is modified even further. Armoring perks that increased AR are increased by 20 points instead, perks that recharge magicka do so by 50% of all reduced damage taken, or perks that reflect damage reflect 20% of damage instead.

### Block

- Deflect (50) 
	When blocking an attack from a thrown or marksman weapon using a shield, roll 1d4. On a 4, the attack is deflected to the side, and any damage beyond the blocking roll is ignored. The block still spends stamina as normal.

- Fortress (50) 
	The character wields a weapon and shield in tandem, reducing the cost of any block reactions by 10 SP when wielding a one-handed weapon in their main hand.

- Persistence (50)
	Successfully blocking an attack reduces the Magicka or Stamina cost of the next spell or ability by 25 points.

- Bladed Aegis (75, Fortress)
	After making a successful block, the character can choose to make their next weapon attack with a one-handed weapon deal additional physical damage equal to half their Block skill. This ability cannot be used more than once in the same round, nor activate two rounds in a row.

- Elemental Defender (75) 
	When making a block check against magical attacks with a shield, the character can block the full amount of their blocking dice roll, and decreases passive elemental effects by half. 

- Relentless Defender (75) 
	The stamina cost of blocking reactions, but not blocking abilities, is halved.

- Unmoving (75, Fortress)
	As long as the character is holding a shield and has at least one point of stamina, they are immune to being stunned, knocked prone, knocked off balance, or pushed.

- Dreadnaught (100, Fortress)
	After performing any blocking ability, the character takes half as much damage from all sources (after weakness and resistance) until the start of their next turn. This effect can not occur if it was activated the round before.

- Wall of Thorns (100, Bladed Aegis)
	If a block by this character would reduce damage to less than 0, the remainder is dealt back to the attacker. After performing any block ability, the next successful block deals damage back to the attacker equal to half the damage reduced by the block. This effect can not occur if it was activated the round before.

### Conjuration

- Daedric Protection (50)
	Once per day, after summoning a Daedric minion, the character can increase their life regen rates by 100% for 1 round.

- Far-Caster (50) 
	Doubles the range of summoning spells.

- Spirit Blade (50)
	Bound weapons are more powerful, dealing damage equal to an Elven weapon counterpart.

- Stable Rift (75, Far Caster)
	Summoned daedra last for two round longer, and when being banished use their caster’s level for resistance

- Plague (75)
	Undead raised by the character may deal disease damage for their attacks rather than physical damage, and as a bonus action the caster can make their undead emit a cloud that deals their melee attack damage as disease damage to all enemies within 5ft

- Raging Familiar (75) 
	The character can make any daedra or spirit they summon enraged by declaring this intention before the spell is cast. The summon deals extra damage equal to twice the player character’s level, and is dispelled after 2 rounds.

- Return to the Master (75, Daedric Protection) 
	Once per day, when a Daedric minion summoned by the character is killed, they may pull back some of its residual energies. Doing so recovers MP equal to half the initial summoning cost.

- Blade of Oblivion (100, Spirit Blade) 
	When creating a bound weapon the character can pay a blood price equal to four times their HR, taking that much damage to strengthen the weapon. It deals damage equivalent to its Daedric counterpart.

- Soul Shatter (100)
	Once per day, upon dropping below 25% health, the character can create a blast of soul energy around them, dealing magic damage equal to 4d20 plus their Conjuration level in magic damage to all enemies within a 5ft radius

- Undying Legion (100) 
	Undead raised by the caster are resistant to nearly all types of damage, taking half as much damage from any source except sun damage.

### Destruction

- Elemental Focus I (50) 
	Choose an elemental magic type. When casting a spell of that element, roll a d4. If the result is a 4, the following respective effect is activated. Fire spells combust, dealing twice as much burning damage from their passive effect. Frost reduces the target’s pace by 10ft for one round. Shock stuns targets that fail an END save equal to the TN of the spell.

- Overcharge I (50) 
	The character can cast any spell as an overcharge, doubling the base bonus at 150% of the spell’s cost. Afterwards they are burned out, and may not cast another Destruction spell for one round.

- Walk with the Elements I (50) 
	Cloaking spells can be cast using the movement step, and last one round longer for every 25 levels of Destruction.

- Trap Weaver I (50) 
	Runes can be cast using the movement step, and twice as far away

- Elemental Focus II (75, Elemental Focus I) 
	The elemental magic type chosen from Elemental Focus I gains the additional passive effect. The element type’s passive effect is twice as effective if the target is below half health.

- Overcharge II (75, Overcharge I) 
	A more powerful overcharge can be used, giving up both the movement and reaction steps to make a spell deal triple its dice pool and three times its base bonus for 300% of its cost. Afterwards the character is burned out, and may not cast another Destruction spell for one round.

- Trap Weaver II (75, Trap Weaver I) 
	Elemental wall spells can be cast using the movement step. Runes and wall spells are also more potent, doubling their dice pools

- Walk with the Elements II (75, Walk with the Elements I) 
	Cloak spells extend their radius to 10ft, and have their dice pool doubled. Cloak spells do not damage allies.

- Elemental Focus III (100, Elemental Focus II) 
	The elemental magic type chosen from Elemental Focus II gains the additional effect listed. Fire spells that hit on a raise ignite the ground beneath the target, dealing fire damage to all targets that enter or begin their turn in a 5ft radius until the caster’s next turn. Frost spells that hit on a raise freeze their targets further, reducing pace by an additional 15ft, and stunning the target if their pace is reduced to 0. Shock spells that hit on a raise throw their target back 10 ft, and drain magicka 50% more.

### Evade

- Blur (50) 
	Upon a successful Evade, the character can evoke one of the following effects:  
	- Gain a +5 per success and subsequent Raise on the next attack aimed at the evaded target. This effect does not stack across multiple Evades but can affect multiple targets.  
	- Gain a +5 per success and subsequent Raise on the next Evade. This effect cannot be evoked on more than one consecutive Evade

- Dash Step (50) 
	The maximum distance that can be traveled with an evade reaction is doubled, and the character can use their bonus action for their next turn to make an additional evade reaction in a round.

- Measured (75) 
	Failed evade reactions do not cost stamina outside of their armor penalty

- Sanctuary (75) 
	Successful Evade attempts against AoE effects reduce damage to 0 and failed attempts incoming AoE damage. When caught in the radius of an attack that cannot be dodged out of, the character can make an evade check to take half as much damage after resistances.

- Winds of Motion  (100, Measured) 
	All Evade reactions cost half as much stamina

- Untouchable (100, Dash Step) 
	The character can make up to two evade reactions using their reaction step during a round. 

### Illusion

- Blurring Static (50) 
	Targets who save against Illusion effects resulting from spells cast by the character will suffer a minus to their next roll, equal to 1/10th of the character’s Illusion level.

- Silent Casting (50) 
	Illusion spells cast by the character are silent, their direction cannot be traced, and casting them does not break stealth.

- Trickster (75, Silent Casting) 
	All non-Destruction spells cast by the character are silent, their direction cannot be traced, and casting them does not break stealth. Illusion spells cast while undetected are also twice as effective, requiring a raise to save.

- Shadow Barrier (75) 
	Once per day, upon casting an Illusion spell, the caster can surround themselves by a shadowy veil which increases their AR and Magic Resist by 15 for 1R.

- Unceasing Hex (75) 
	The first time per day that a target of the character’s Illusion spell effect succeeds against the associated save, the target must instead roll the save once again.

- Wavering Image (75) 
	After the character casts an Illusion spell, they may surround themselves with wavering afterimages of themself. The next ability, spell, or attack made against the character is lowered by half the Illusion spell’s TN. This effect cannot occur two rounds in a row.

- Sandman (100) 
	As a free action once per day the caster can whisper to a target affected by one of their Illusion spells. The target’s stamina and magicka are reduced by two times the caster’s Illusion level, and if both fall to 0 the target is knocked unconscious for 1d4 hours.

### Marksman

- Eagle Eye (50) 
	The character can spend stamina to ignore their distance penalties when making an attack at 15SP for medium range and 25SP for long range. If the character learns the ability Eagle Eye, the effect changes as follows:  
	 - Eagle Eye (Marksman, Apprentice, 35SP): The marksman watches their target in slow time, ignoring any penalties given by its size, movement speed, or distance. If the enemy attempts to Evade, it does not gain any bonuses from its Passive TN.

- Far Shot (50) 
	When a ranged weapon attack using the marksman skill hits a target at long range, the wielder may roll their Marksman skill and add the highest result to the damage

- Specialist I (50) 
	Choose a weapon type and gain the respective critical effect. When making a successful attack with that weapon type, roll a d4. If it lands on a 4, the effect activates.  
	- Bows give the character Quick Draw, allowing them to make a basic attack as a free action using the same roll as the first.  
	- Crossbows deal heavy blows, ignoring half of the target’s AR and dealing twice as much stamina damage when blocked.

- Specialist II (75, Specialist I) 
	The weapon type chosen in Specialist I gains the following effect. Bows gain Barrage, allowing the character to use their movement step to perform a basic attack. Barrage does not trigger the effect of Specialist I on hits. Crossbows ignore their loading property.

- Spell Bow (75, Destruction 25) 
	When making a ranged weapon attack with a marksman weapon, the caster can spend 25MP to make their attack deal frost, fire, or shock damage instead of physical damage (Maybe this should be an ability?)

- Specialist III (100, Specialist II) 
	The weapon type chosen in Specialist II gains the following effect, which activates any time they succeed a marksman skill check with the weapon by at least a raise. For bows, Barrage triggers Quick Draw as a free action on a raise. For crossbows, raises cause the bolt to pierce through the target’s armor, ignoring AR and any other physical resistances.
### One-Handed

- Ambidextrous (50) 
	Allows the character to effectively utilize weapons in both hands, dealing equal damage in each. With this perk a character with a weapon in both hands can use their movement step to attack with both. This is treated as a single attack, with the off hand weapon adding its base damage to the damage of the main weapon.

- Duelist I (50) 
	When wielding a one-handed weapon in one hand and having a free off-hand (spells are not counted for this off-hand), the character gains the Parry reaction. For 25 Stamina (in addition to blocking cost) they can perform this reaction once per round on a successful block, and perform a counter-attack with their weapon. A character may not continue to perform block reactions in a round after using Parry. A character with a free off-hand may also now use their One-Handed skill to perform block reactions.

- Specialist (50) 
	Choose a weapon type and gain the respective critical effect. When making a successful attack with that weapon type, roll a d4. If it lands on a 4, the effect activates. Off-hand weapons cannot crit. Daggers stack Biting Marks on the target, and on the second stack deals 50% more damage, expending both Biting Marks. Swords place their target on the back foot, giving them a -3 to any next action or reaction roll they make. Waraxes cause bleeding damage, dealing an additional 20% over two rounds. Maces ignore half of the target’s armor.

- Focused Strikes (50)  
	Wielding a chain weapon without any other weapon or shield adds a +3/5 to relevant skill checks

- Finesse (50) 
	Using light-weight one handed weapons such as silver, elven, and glass allows the user to add 1/10th of their Agility as an attack modifier to hit against contested rolls

- Harrowing Blow (75) 
	Striking an enemy with a long ranged chain weapon attack without moving in that turn always deals maximum damage, in addition to explosions (may need better explanation)

- Duelist II (75, Duelist I) 
	When wielding a one-handed weapon and having an empty off-hand, Feint can now be used as a free action. The base blocking pool of one-handed weapons are increased by 15. Parry no longer ends the blocking reaction.

- Slaughter (75, Ambidextrous) 
	When wielding a weapon both in the main and off hand, the first successful attack performed by the character will deal additional damage equal to their One-handed skill, if its target is below 25% health. This effect cannot occur twice in one round, or for two rounds in a row against the same target.

- Specialist II (75, Specialist I) 
	The character becomes well versed with the weapon type chosen from Specialist I, making their critical effect always activate on a raise

- Stunning Lashes (75) 
	The wielder of a chain weapon can expend 25 SP when striking an enemy with Rapid Strike to force one of the following effects:  
	- An END save or be stunned  
	- An AGI save or be knocked prone

- Punishing Return (100) 
	Targets that succeed on saving throws from chain weapon abilities and perks are gouged, taking additional damage equal to the weapon dice modifier.

### Restoration

- Barrier of Light (50) 
	Wards cast by the character recover magicka equal to the amount of spell damage absorbed.

- Burn the Undead (50) 
	Turn Undead spells also light the targets ablaze, dealing 2d12+15 sun damage for every 25 levels of Destruction.

- Recovery (50) 
	After casting a healing spell, the caster’s MR is doubled for the next upkeep. This effect does not stack but is refreshed if another healing spell is cast while the regen rate increase is in effect.

- Arcane Reaction (75, Barrier of Light) 
	The character can now cast up to two ward spells for a single Reaction 

- Healing Wind (75, Recovery) 
	Healing spells also recharge the target’s stamina by the same amount.

- Mending (75) 
	Healing spells become more effective against targets with lower health. An ally with less than 25% of their maximum health who is healed by this character will recover additional hit points equal to the character’s Restoration level. This effect cannot occur two rounds in a row, or twice in one round.

- Miracle Worker (100) 
	The caster can use a reaction to cast any healing spell centered on an ally whose health has just dropped to 0 or below. If the spell is successful, the ally remains knocked off balance from the attack but otherwise heals the full amount of the spell.

### Throwing

- Ambidextrous (50)
	Allows the character to utilize throwing weapons in both hands, dealing equal damage with each. With this perk a character with a throwing weapon in both hands can expend their movement step to attack with both.

- Specialist I (50) 
	Choose a weapon type and gain the respective critical effect. When making a successful attack with that weapon type, roll a d4. If it lands on a 4, the effect activates.  
	- Throwing knives rend the target, dealing double their base damage. This effect can only activate once per round of combat  
	- Throwing axes strike with incredible force, causing the target to be knocked off balance on failing an END save equal to 4 plus 3 for every 10 levels of Throwing. 

- Quick Strike (75, Ambidextrous) 
	Allows the character to utilize their free action to perform a single attack with the throwing weapon in their off-hand.

- Specialist II (75, Specialist I) 
	The weapon type chosen in Specialist I gains the additional effect when a crit is rolled.  
	- Throwing knives cause an exploitable weak point on struck targets, making the next weapon attack against the target ignore half the target’s AR.  
	- Throwing Axes knock the wind out of their target, dealing equal damage to stamina.

- Tenacity (100) 
	Weapon attacks and abilities using Thrown weapons that raise recover stamina equal to the character’s SR for each hit

  

### Two-Handed

- Knock ‘Em Down (50) 
	Any two-handed attack which knocks an enemy prone deals additional damage equal to the enemy’s base AR.

- Specialist (50) 
	Choose a weapon type and gain the respective critical effect. When making a successful attack with that weapon type, roll a d4. If it lands on a 4, the effect activates. Spears ignore the base blocking roll against them. Greatswords cause the target to deal 10% less damage for one round. Battleaxes cause bleeding damage, dealing an extra 20% over two rounds. Warhammers ignore half of the target’s armor.

- Battle Conditioning (75) 
	Abilities using two-handed weapons cost half as much when the character skips their movement step during the round they are performed.

- Devastating Blows (75) 
	Power attacks and other die number modifying abilities with two-handed weapons are bolstered, adding half the base weapon bonus to the attack. (For a standard power attack, 4d8+53 weapon would deal 12d8+53+27 damage)

- Giant’s Grip (100) 
	Allows Two-Handed weapons to be wielded in one hand. The user can now also wield weapons that would normally require them to be twice as large. While dual-wielding Two-Handed weapons, a bonus action can be used to make a weapon attack with the off-handed weapon at the cost of 50 SP. This also decreases the user’s defenses, halving their passive TN and reducing their passive TN bonus for Evade reactions to 0.

- Raging Warrior (100) 
	When falling below half health and wielding a Two-Handed weapon, the character takes half as much damage from all sources

- Bloodlust (100) 
	When a Two-Handed weapon attack brings an enemy below 25% health, the character can make another basic weapon attack against them as a bonus action. Can only be activated once per enemy.

### Unarmed

- Armored Brawler (50)
	Unarmed attacks while wearing medium or heavy armor gauntlets deal additional damage. For medium armor, they deal 1d6+2 per tier, for heavy armor they deal 1d10+4 per tier.

- Brawler Conditioning I (50)
	Once per round the character can use their blocking reaction to absorb an attack, blocking 1d12 damage for every 10 levels of Martial Arts, before applying armor, and taking half as much damage to stamina.

- Open Palm Fighter (50)
	While unarmed, the character can make a basic unarmed attack as an additional free action. Must be wearing light or no armor to do so at no cost. In Medium Armor, the additional attack is still a free action but costs 15 SP.

- Martial Weapon Fighter (50)
	While wielding a martial weapon, the character rolls a 1d4 when making a martial weapon attack. On a 4, they recover Stamina equal to their SR. 

- Monastic Conditioning I (50)
	Perks that apply to medium armor taken by the character now instead apply when wearing light armor, and the character gains the Medium Armor Training I perk. The perks no longer apply to medium armor, and the character cannot take any other perks that modify light armor.

- Way of the Wind (75, Open Palm Fighter)
	While unarmed and at the beginning of combat, the character may enter Wind Stance, gaining 1 point of Ki for every unarmed strike landed. For 1 Ki point, the character can make an Evade reaction for 20 SP less than they would otherwise.  For 3 Ki points, the character may use any Apprentice or lower Martial Arts ability for no base cost. For 6 Ki points, this can be an Adept ability instead. This stance ends if the user ends the round with 0 Ki, and must be resumed as an action or movement. Wind Stance cannot be entered if the user is already in River or Stone stance. Ki points reset to 0 once combat is over.

- Way of the River (75, Martial Weapon Fighter)
	At the beginning of combat, the character may enter River Stance, reducing their SR to 0 and giving a +4 to martial weapon attacks.  Raises on martial weapon attacks now automatically activate Martial Weapon Fighter, which now recovers Stamina based on the SR before River Stance was applied. After two rounds, the character gains the Greater Power Crashing River, which allows them to make two martial weapon attacks as a free action and add half of all lost SR as damage to each. This breaks River Stance until resumed as an action or movement. River Stance cannot be entered if the user is already in Stone or Wind stance.

- Way of the Stone (75, Armored Brawler)
	While unarmed and at the beginning of combat, the character may enter Stone Stance, decreasing their passive TN by half and gaining two dice to all unarmed attacks’ damage pools. Once per round while in Stone Stance, the user may activate Unmoving Stone as a free action, rerolling any failed save and taking the higher value.

- Tranquility (100) 
	Once per day, while ending a turn with no stamina, the character can use a free action to synchronize their mind and body, recovering half of their maximum stamina immediately.