### Academics

- **Intense Studies I (50)** 
	The character has spent time studying and training their skills to great effect, and begins by learning to imbue them into scrolls. They may choose one adept or lower and one novice or lower spell, and may prepare them as scrolls out of combat using a short rest. Only two scrolls can be made at a time, and require parchment to make.

- **I Read About This… (50)** 
	When encountering a new type of enemy the character can make an Academics check, and upon succeeding learns one weakness, one resistance, and one ability or spell the enemy has, chosen by the GM.

- **Intense Studies II (75, Intense Studies I)** 
	The character continues their studies, and during a short rest may make up to four scrolls of any Expert or lower spell or spells that they know. The scrolls require parchment to make. This means they have chosen two spells from Intense Studies I and four additional spells from Intense Studies II

- **Epiphany (75, Intense Studies II)** 
	Spells and abilities chosen for  Intense Studies I and II cost half as much magicka or stamina to use

- **Intense Studies III (100, Intense Studies II)** 
	A lifetime worth of knowledge has been absorbed and honed by the character. During a short rest they may prepare a scroll of any Master spell they have learned, or up to five Expert or lower spells that they know. The scrolls require parchment to make.This means they may pick one additional spell, Master or lower.

- **Lexicon (100, Epiphany, Intense Studies III)** 
	The Master spell lore ability earned from Intense Studies can be cast at half cost once per day.


### Alchemy

- Gatherer I (50) 
	Through their travels the character has met a friend who sends them alchemical ingredients. When taking this perk, choose 10 ingredients whose value is no more than 50 gold each. Once per day, so long as the character is in a location reasonable to be reached by courier, they receive 5 ingredients from this list at random.

- Physician (50) 
	Potion effects that restore life stats and improve life rates are 25% stronger.

- Poisoner (50) 
	Potion effects that damage life stats and life rates are 25% stronger.

- Experimenter (75) 
	Researching an ingredient reveals all of its effects. Taking this perk increases all Alchemy rolls by +2.

- Gatherer II (75, Gatherer I) 
	Choose 5 more ingredients whose value is no more than 100 gold each. The character receives 10 ingredients rather than 5. At any time this list can be rechosen, under the same conditions, and the new list will come into effect within 1 week.

- Physician II (75, Physician I) 
	If a potion has an effect that restores life stats or improves life rates, the character can make up to three potions with the same number of ingredients

- Poisoner II (75, Poisoner I) 
	Poisons made by the character last for twice as many swings when applied to a weapon.

- Snake Blood (100, Poisoner II) 
	The character is immune to all poisoning effects. When poison damage would be dealt to the player, 25% of the damage that would be dealt is healed instead.

- Purity (100) 
	When creating potions the character can ignore either the positive or negative effects. They also gain the ability to distill a potion from a single ingredient, picking any number of the four effects to make into the final product.

### Athletics

- Nimble Fighter (50) 
	After performing an Athletics ability, roll a d4. On a 4, add 1/10th of the character’s Athletics level to their passive TN until the start of their next turn. This perk effect does not stack.

- Second Wind (50) 
	Once per day, when the character falls below half of their max stamina, they may use the Second Wind ability as a free action, tripling their SR for three rounds.

- Free Runner (75)
	Allows the character to move up and along vertical surfaces, such as walls, without falling or suffering any reduction in pace. This also allows them to run across water, provided they continue using their movement to do so.

- Nimble Fighter II (75, Nimble Fighter I)
	In addition to the bonus of Nimble Fighter when rolling a 4 after performing an Athletics ability, the character reduces the cost of their next reaction by 10 SP.

- Second Wind II (75, Second Wind I)
	Choose one: Second Wind can be performed up to two times per day but cannot stack. Or Second Wind now also heals for up to 25% of the character’s maximum HP.

- Nimble Fighter III (100, Nimble Fighter II)
	Once per day, the 1d4 from Nimble Fighter can be re-rolled. Passive TN increase on a 4 is now equal to 1/5th of Athletics. Next reaction cost reduction is increased to 20S P. Additionally, the character may choose to reduce the cost of their next Bonus Action by 20 SP instead of their next reaction.

- Second Wind III (100, Second Wind II) 
	After activated Second Wind, the cost of all Athletics abilities are halved for one round. If the daily number of uses were increased in Second Wind II, the uses are now increased to three. If healing was chosen in Second Wind II, it is now increased to 50% of maximum HP.

- Wind Runner (100, Free Runner) 
	Increases the character’s base pace by 10 ft. Once per day, the character can re-roll a failed save against any effect that would reduce their pace. The character now ignores the effects of difficult terrain.

### Deception

- Fool Me Once (50) 
	Once per day after making a successful Deception check, the character can choose to gain a +5 to all successive Deception rolls against the same target for 24 hours.

- Forgery (50) 
	Forgeries made by the character require a raise to be found suspicious, and once one is made it can be duplicated exactly as the previous one without needing to roll again. 

- Bribery (75)
	Officials and guards are much more likely to take bribes from the player. Add a +3 to any checks towards this purpose. 

- Fooled You Twice (75, Fool Me Once) 
	When succeeding the next subsequent Deception roll after Fool Me Once is activated, the character gains a permanent +2 to all Deception rolls against the target.

- Unreadable (100) 
	The character is able to convey whatever intention they choose, and even in failing Deception checks appear to believe whatever they are saying. When failing a Deception check, the next Deception check gains a +5 modifier

### Enchanting

- Elemental Enchanter (50)
	Choose an element: Fire, Frost, Shock, or Poison. Add +5 to the base effect of the chosen element when placing enchantments of that type. When taking this perk, add +1 to all spell rolls involving the chosen element type.

- Insightful Enchanter (50) 
	Enchantments that give skill bonuses add an additional +1. When taking this perk, all enchanting rolls increase by +1.

- Corpus Enchanter (75) 
	HR, MR, and SR enchantments increase by 5. Enchantments that absorb HP, MP, or SP increases by 5. When taking this perk, gain a permanent +5 to either HR, MR, or SR.

- Soul Siphon (75) 
	Non-humanoid creatures dying within 30 ft of the user have a portion of their soul trapped, recovering 15 charge to the user’s equipped enchanted weapon. The next attack roll using that weapon gains a +5, which does not stack.

- Extra Effect (100) 
	Once per day, when enchanting an item, add an additional effect.

### Performance
- Bardic Training I (50) 
	Transforms the Performance skill into a dual skill, unlocking Bard abilities up to level 50. Once this perk is taken the character may begin acquiring Bard abilities according to the following table, which shows the maximum number of abilities that can be learned by mastery:

|     | Novice | Apprentice | Adept | Expert | Master |
| --- | ------ | ---------- | ----- | ------ | ------ |
| 50  | 2      | 2          | 1     | -      | -      |
| 75  | 2      | 2          | 2     | 1      | -      |
| 100 | 2      | 2          | 2     | 2      | 1      |

  

- Bardic Spellcrafting (50) 
	Bard abilities can now be cast as spells using magicka. When doing so, they are affected by all perks, powers and effects which affect spells. Additionally, casting a bard ability as a spell gives the character +2 to the skill check.

- Bardic Training II (75) 
	Choose a specialization and gain the following effect.  
	- **Balladier**: At the beginning of combat, roll a performance skill check with a TN of 14. On succeeding, gain +3 to performance rolls for one round.  
	- **Lead** **Role**: When performing in a play, a successful performance inspires adoration from the audience and even gains fans. Within the next day, the performer receives a gift whose value does not exceed 1,000 gold.  
	- **Tale** **Spinning**: Successful Bard rolls for performances in a tavern echo throughout town, giving all party members a +2 to any social-based rolls within the town or city for 24 hours. 

### Persuasion

- Allure (50) 
	Persuasion checks are more effective when speaking to someone of a chosen gender, selected when this perk is initially taken. Checks on people of the selected gender succeed unless the target number is failed by more than a raise. This effect is applied regardless of the person’s attraction or orientation.

- Kinship (50) 
	Upon taking this perk, the character selects one of the following: their own race, people of a profession they have been in, people who speak a specified language that the user speaks, or people from the same country of origin as the character. People fitting the selected category are more easily persuaded, and all persuade checks made towards them by the character have their TN halved.

- Merchant (50) 
	With a proper Persuasion check, the character can sell nearly any item to any merchant, regardless of what they normally buy and sell and as long as the item is not illegal in the region. This also cannot extend to stolen items whose base value is more than 250 septims.

- Follower (75)

- Underground Dealer (75, Merchant) 
	The character is easily able to sell stolen merchandise and find thief havens to push illegal wares as well. Target numbers to find these areas are halved, as are target numbers to spot undercover agents of the law in all situations.

- Voice of Gold (100) 
	Reroll any failed Persuasion check once, as long as the result was not a botch. Raising targets on Persuasion checks give a +5 to the next Persuasion check.

### Security

- Go With the Gut (50) 
	Once per day when entering a building, dungeon, or any other enclosed space that would have containers, the character gets a good feeling about a particular direction. If there is a locked container within 500ft they find it, and if they can unlock it gain treasure based on their Security level. For the loot table, refer to Section *** in the GM manual.

- Lucky Break (75) 
	When failing a security check the character can make an AGI or LCK save against the lock’s TN. If successful, the lock pops open.

- Old Hat (100) 
	Locks below Master level become second nature to unlock, and do not require a skill check to do so.

### Sleight-of-Hand

- Lost in the Crowd (50) 
	The character becomes adept at finding the highest priority marks and navigating through crowds in urban environments like marketplaces and noisy taverns.  They can roll a Sleight of Hand check to identify the most likely mark and pickpocket them, and the contested PER check must raise to detect them

### Stealth

- Sneak Attack (50) 
	The character can make a basic attack on an enemy who has not detected them during the Surprise Round and make it a sneak attack instead. This attack deals Power Attack damage at no cost

- Sneak Buddies (50) 
	For each raise on a Stealth check, an additional ally can be concealed by the roll.

- Death from the Shadows (75) 
	Once per Combat instance if the stealth character has raised against the target’s Perception they may perform one sneak attack and remain undetected by that target for one round.

- Eviscerate (75, Sneak Attack)
	If a single sneak attack deals 75% or more of the target’s maximum health in damage, it is followed by a rapid and lethal second attack, killing the target instantly.

### Smithing

- Arcane Blacksmith (50) 
	Allows repairs and enhancement to enchanted weapons. When taken, the smith gains a +2 to all smithing rolls.

- Armor Specialization I (50) 
	Choose either light armor, medium armor, heavy armor, or shields. For light armor, Attunement increases MR by 5 and Insulate increases magic resistance to 10. For medium armor, Streamline increases evade cost reduction by 25 SP. For heavy armor, Reinforce increases AR by 10. For shields, Banding adds one extra die to the dice pool across all Tiers.

- Weapon Specialization I (50) 
	Pick either swords, axes, or maces/hammers. For weapons, enhancements are increased as follows: hone's power attack reduction increases to 20 SP. Sharpen adds one additional die to the dice pool. Guarding enhancement adds a +5 rather than +3.

- Armor Specialization II (75, Armor Specialization I) 
	For the chosen armor type, enhanced armors provide +3 to AGI or END saves, chosen at the time of enhancement. If shields were chosen, enhanced shields give a +3 to the blocking rolls while using the shield.

- Weapon Specialization II (75, Specialization I) 
	For the chosen weapon type, enhancement also adds a permanent +3 to the applicable skill rolls using that weapon.

- Armor Specialization III (100, Armor Specialization II) 
	For the chosen armor type, once per day an additional enhancement can be placed on a set of armor that is being enhanced. For shields, enhanced shields gain a +20 to their base blocking pool.

- Weapon Specialization III (100, Specialization II) 
	All weapons of the chosen specialty gain a +20 to their base damage when enhanced.

### Survival

- The Best Ingredients (50)  
	Recipes prepared by the character do not suffer any effects from food poisoning. Additionally, if a Provisioning check would result in no effect, it may be re-rolled. This can be done once per day.

- Name (75/100)