From the northwestern desert to seas of golden savannahs, to southern jungles and tropical rainforests, the cat people of Elsweyr have built civilizations since long before recorded history. They are naturally among the first races to ever settle in Tamriel, and among the few who are likely native to the continent. Hundreds of their cities were built in southern Tamriel, many long buried in shifting sands or reclaimed by deep rainforest foliage. Like the elven Silvenar, their Mane who leads them is believed to be reborn through the ages long after the first to claim the mantle united Elsweyr in ancient times. Though the Mane holds much power, it is the Clan Mothers who oversee the trade of Moon Sugar that drives Khajiit culture. The plant, which has powerful euphoric effects along with sometimes dangerous consequences, has found its way throughout Elsweyr cuisine and distilled into drugs such as skooma, which is illegal in much of Tamriel. Khajiit physiology is diverse and commanded by phases of the moons which they hold in great reverence and worship. Many breeds of Khajiit come in various shapes and sizes from being almost indistinguishable from a household cat to house-sized battle cats. Most commonly seen are the bipedal suthay-raht and larger cathay Khajiit. The language of the Khajiit is Ta’agra, spoken primarily in third person and lending the earned suffixes that many Khajiit have to their names. They are agile, stealthy, and have both quick reflexes and excellent night vision. These natural capacities combined with sharp business sense and charisma leads some Khajiit to lucrative careers in thievery and swindling, which in turn gives their race a very unfortunate reputation that is most often unwarranted. They are, on the contrary, a kind and honest people who have endured life’s challenges with a smile. That is the Khajiit way, after all.  

### Racial Bonuses

**Starting Attributes**: S25/P45/E35/C35/I25/A45/L35  

**Skill Bonuses**: 
- +10 [[Evade]] and [[Stealth]]
- +5 to any three: [[Athletics]], [[Deception]], [[Intimidation]], [[Sleight-of-Hand]], [[Throwing]], [[Unarmed]]

**Additional Bonuses**: 
- Nightvision
- When dealing unarmed damage with claws, deal an additional 1d12 rather than 1d4, plus 1d12 for every 10 player levels to a max of 5d12.

**Natural Powers** (Choose One):

- Eye of Fear

	The character’s eyes glow with an unnatural terror, freezing an enemy in their tracks. Once per day this power can be used on a target that is within sight, able to see the character, and below the character’s level. They are stunned, with their save TN equal to a CHA or LCK Ability check made by the character.

- Feline Reflexes

	The character uses their natural reflexes and agility for a short burst of defensive power. This power can be used once per day to half the cost of all reactions requiring stamina made by the character for two rounds.