The Aldmer spread across Tamriel in the Merethic Era, as far north as the Direnni clans of High Rock who would give birth to the Bretons. Along the Iliac Bay and deep into the Wrothgarian mountains, the Aldmer who worshipped the Aedric god-warrior Trinimac were believed to be transformed by a terribly curse when Boethia defeated their deity. Trinimac became Malacath, and the Aldmer who followed him became the Orsimer. Called Orcs by many of the other races, the green and tusked Orsimer are nearly as tall as their Altmer relatives, though much more physically imposing. They have held no kingdom since their last was destroyed in the middle of the First Era, and without a home they have faced persecution and prejudice over the many centuries after. Their city or Orsinium has been raised, destroyed, moved, and raised again numerous times throughout history, and those that have not been able to make homes within foreign cities have nestled into the northern mountains in secluded fortresses. Honor is of the utmost importance to the Orsimer, who follow the Code of Malacath. To slight someone is to submit to the price of betrayal, either by gold or by blood. The nomadic Orsimer of the fortresses adopt a culture meant to ensure only the strongest lineage is allowed to continue. The Chieftain proves themselves to be the strongest, and worthy of taking wives and having offspring. Clans often trade people to form strong bonds and stronger progeny. As brutal as this life can be, Orsimer men of the clans do not expect to live long. In fact, it is considered by many to be shameful for one to grow old, and that it is better to die to a worthy opponent than continue past their prime. The women are expected to be strong and fearsome. They are traditionally the smiths of the clans, and their prowess for metalworking is unrivaled in Tamriel. Stronghold life is one that many Orsimer escape by joining militaries, using their renowned fighting and smithing skills to travel the world. Orsimer usually have black hair and green or yellow eyes, with large frames and bold features. Small horns protrude from some of their brows and foreheads, and all have sharp tusks rising up from their lower jaws.  

### Racial Bonuses

**Starting Attributes**: S45/P35/E45/C25/I35/A35/L25  

**Skill Bonuses**: 
- +10 to [[Two-Handed]] and [[Smithing]]
- +5 to [[One-Handed]], [[Intimidation]], and [[Unarmed]]

**Additional Bonuses**: Chosen of Malacath (Double bonus from shrines to Malacath)

**Natural Powers** (Choose One):

- Berserker Rage: 

	The character channels their inner fury for a short period, taking less damage from physical attacks while dealing more. This power can be used once per day and lasts one round. Any physical damage taken during this duration, after armor is applied, is halved. If the character falls below 25% health during this time, their weapon attack dice pools are doubled for the remainder of the duration.

- The Blood Price:

	The spurn of Malacath is wicked and flows through the character’s veins, to be called upon to punish their enemies. This power can be used once per day and lasts one round to rend enemies dealing physical damage to the player. Each enemy making a weapon or unarmed attack takes half as much damage back in the form of bleeding damage. If they succeed an AGI or END save against an END or LCK check by the user, they take half as much bleeding damage instead. The bleeding damage is resolved during the upkeep of the round it is caused.
