The level of an Attribute or Skill falls into two ranges: one to determine its dice pool and another for the mastery associated with it. The following table should serve as a guide to these ranges:

| Level Range | Mastery    | Die Type |
| ----------- | ---------- | -------- |
| 1-14        | Novice     | 1d4      |
| 15-19       | Novice     | 2d4      |
| 20-24       | Novice     | 2d6      |
| 25-34       | Apprentice | 2d8      |
| 35-44       | Apprentice | 3d8      |
| 45-49       | Apprentice | 4d8      |
| 50-59       | Adept      | 4d10     |
| 60-69       | Adept      | 4d10+1   |
| 70-74       | Adept      | 4d10+2   |
| 75-79       | Expert     | 4d12+1   |
| 80-94       | Expert     | 4d12+2   |
| 95-99       | Expert     | 4d12+3   |
| 100         | Master     | 4d20+4   |
| 105         | Legendary  | 6d20+25  |
| 110         | Mythic     | 8d20+35  |
| 115         | Ascendant  | 6d50+45  |
| 120         | Demi-God   | 12d50+55 |

Mastery is the general level of competence a character or creature has in the given field. A Novice is a relatively untrained person, and an Apprentice is one in the beginnings of their education. Those with an Adept skill are fairly versed in it, enough to even be considered a professional in their field. A town blacksmith is likely an Adept smith, and a typical adventurer worth their salt may be an Adept in One-Handed weapons. Experts have decades worth of experience and have truly honed their craft. They are few and quite notable. An Expert in the art of Alteration may be a revered researcher and teacher of the arcane. Someone with an Expert level of Stealth could be a nationally notorious thief. Masters are incredibly rare, and hold a lifetime of knowledge in their field. This is the pinnacle of achievement as far as the vast majority of mortals are concerned. Archmages, arena champions, and grandmasters of guilds are often Masters of their vocation.

There are some legendary heroes and otherworldly beings that have pushed beyond what even the most talented could accomplish in their lives. A Legendary master of a skill is a force of nature with it, beginning to even bend reality around them to perform unbelievable feats. Long spoken myths of great warriors such as Pelinal Whitestrake may have counted among such figures in history. Mythic and Ascendant beings are even more multiple magnitudes beyond that. There is yet another classification of unfathomable skill, Demi-Gods whose abilities blur the lines between mortal and the divine.

Regardless of level of mastery, each has a standard Target Number (TN) attributed to feats of its magnitude. To perform an Adept level task, typically at least a 12 must be rolled to succeed. Likewise, saving against an Adept level spell effect could require a 12 or more. To contend with the gods themselves, a creature may have to roll an 85 or even higher!

| Mastery    | TN  |
| ---------- | --- |
| Novice     | 4   |
| Apprentice | 8   |
| Adept      | 12  |
| Expert     | 16  |
| Master     | 22  |
| Legendary  | 35  |
| Mythic     | 45  |
| Ascendant  | 65  |
| Demi-God   | 85  |

  

The standard target to hit a target uncontested is equal to 1/10th of the target’s AGI plus 1/10th of their LCK, with a minimum of 4.