An Explosion occurs when the highest possible number on any given die is rolled. How it works is simple. For each Explosion, roll a separate die again and add that value to it. So when rolling 4d10 on a Skill roll, and two 10’s are rolled, then each will be rolled again. If this results in a 5 and a 10, roll another die. If that die turns out to give a 4, then the highest roll is 10+10+4=24. Yes, Explosions can stack infinitely, and work during damage as well. It is required that additional rolls from explosions after the base die have been rolled. Additionally, any pluses to the die (when rolling a 4d12+4 for example) are accounted for after any Explosions.

Anytime a roll is made there is a chance to Raise either the TN of the roll or the contest. This means the action was executed incredibly well, and often the term Raise will appear in effects. When making an uncontested roll, one raise is achieved for every double of the target rolled, then double the previous raise. Say the target is 5, the first raise occurs when a 10 is rolled. The second occurs at 20, and the third at 40. For contested rolls, each raise occurs for every double of the target rolled above the opposing roll. With the same target of 5 against an opposed roll of 10, the first raise occurs when a 15 is rolled. The second would occur at 25, and so on.

Each raise increases the effect of the task being executed. The exact benefit is dependent on the nature of the roll being made. The following table lists the possible bonuses. Any roll which would result in one or more bonus only gains the first bonus listed on the table.

| Effect Type            | Bonus                                                                                          |
| ---------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Damage, Physical       | +2 dice to the largest damage pool to be rolled, per raise.                                    |
| Damage, Magicka        | +2 dice to the largest damage pool to be rolled for the initial effect, per raise.             |
| Blocking               | +1 dice to the blocking pool per raise, after stamina cost is calculated.                      |
| Forcing saving throw   | +2 to the TN of the save, after any necessary raises to the save are accounted for, per raise. |
| Plus or minus to rolls | +1/-1 per raise, lasting the normal duration of the effect.                                    |
| Duration Effects       | 1 round extra duration for every two raises.                                                   |
