Characters can utilize quiet movements and cover to attempt to pass by others undetected. To roll for Stealth one or more conditions must be met: the character cannot be currently actively observed by another person or creature they wish to hide from, and/or they must have some form of cover or low lighting to justify the roll for stealth. Cover and low lightning are not necessary to make stealth checks against a person or creature that are not currently watching the direction of the character rolling stealth.

Any person or creature in hearing distance or looking in the direction of the stealthed creature can roll Perception to detect them, and must raise the stealthed creature’s Stealth check to succeed in finding their exact location. A creature who succeeds a Perception check by less than a raise is aware that there is an undetected, stealthed creature nearby but is only aware of the general direction they may be. If the character is invisible or under the chameleon effect, the searching creature must roll an additional d100 as a percentage chance to fail that detection. Usually A roll lower than 90 still results in no detection. A second raise on the Perception check decreases this chance by 15, and a third by 30. As described later in the invisibility and chameleon conditions, entities concealed in this way are still not completely visible when detected. Only their general placement and size can be detected.

Armor is typically louder than day to day clothes depending on the material and weight of the armor. Medium armors give only a -2 to Stealth rolls, while heavy armors give a -5.

A group attempting a Stealth check can elect a leader as long as they all meet the conditions to attempt stealth. The leader rolls their Stealth, and each other member in the group gains an automatic Stealth check equal to the closest TN below what was rolled, with the maximum being equal to the standard TN of the leader’s current Mastery. For example, a leader with a 75 Stealth is an Expert with a TN of 15. If they roll a 20 on their Stealth check, every member of the party following their lead automatically has a 15 Stealth check.