### Azura's Star
It is the dream of enchanters the world over to gain access to the Star, which acts just as any grand soul gem save for the fact that it does not break when used. When utilized as an enchanting tool, Azura’s Star allows enchantments one soul stronger than the one it holds. Should the Star be corrupted for some reason to hold a black soul, the soul can be used to place an additional enchantment on an item.

### Oghma Infinium
Bound by the dried skins of various people, this unholy tome was written by Xarxes and has since found itself in the possession of Hermaeus Mora. Reading this tome gives the reader 25 skill points to be used as they see fit, and they may choose a free perk. After being read, the tome vanishes.

### Ring of Hircine
As the name suggests, Hircine gives this ring most often along with a curse that prevents the wearer from removing it. After proving themselves through some manner of trial, Hircine has been known to lift the curse and allow the wearer to keep the ring as a reward. When worn, the wearer transforms into a werecreature, most often a wolf. When blessed by Hircine, it also gives the wearer the following +10 AR when transformed and also removes the INT save to prevent attacking enemy creatures. The wearer also gains the following abilities while transformed:

- **Hircine’s Roar**: Amplifies the Roar ability if known, increasing the CHA save TN to 22. Hostile creatures in ten feet who fail this save also reel backwards, falling prone.

- **Lunar Convalescence**: Amplifies the Hircine’s Bounty ability if known, increases healing to 75% of maximum HP and turning additional healing past maximum health to a damage shield lasting three rounds.

- **Mark of the Pack**: The wearer may choose a creature that they can see as a bonus action, cursing them with Hircine’s vengeance. All party members gain +4 to all abilities, spells, and attacks made against the chosen creature. All sources of damage against the creature increase their die pools by one. Only one creature may be marked at a time, but a bonus action can be used to choose a new target.

- **Unbroken**: Use a reaction to break free of immobilizing effects, ending any effects that paralyze or reduce pace.

### Ring of Namira
As the name suggests, Namira rewards this ring to her most treasured of followers to carry out her will through the mortal world. While worn, the wearer's maximum stamina is increased by 30. The wearer also gains a 200 point damage shield, which regenerates fully every 24 hours from when it was last reduced from full. Damage blocked by this shield is also returned to the source. After cannibalizing a corpse, the ring grows in power: increasing the stamina increase to 70 and the damage shield to 250.
### Skeleton Key
Nocturnal guards this unbreakable lockpick fervently, though it has been known to fall into the hands of intrepid thieves at times. The Skeleton Key counts as a Master level lockpicking set when used and bypasses all traps, even on failed attempts. Locks that it is used on lose a mastery to their TN. The holder may also use their lockpicking skill to attempt to bypass puzzle locks, even when the required items for the lock are not present. The TN fo the lock is determined by the GM.