| Soul Gem     | Recharges/Enchants |
| ------------ | ------------------ |
| Petty        | Up to 25           |
| Lesser       | Up to 45           |
| Common       | Up to 65           |
| Greater      | Up to 85           |
| Grand        | Up to 100          |
| Black        | Up to 105          |
| Azura’s Star | Up to 120          |

Every three days of combat use, weapons that are enchanted need to be recharged for their enchantment to work again. The table above shows which souls can be used to recharge a weapon given its enchantment level (see the enchanting table to find this). For example if an adventurer has a sword with a fire enchantment which deals 25 points of fire damage, the enchanting table lists this as needing level 50 enchanting to craft and is therefore a level 50 enchantment. The table above shows that once the blade needs to be recharged it will require at least a Common level soul to do so. For recharging the effect can also be additive, so a Lesser  and Petty soul can be combined to charge a weapon whose enchantment is up to level 70. Note that given the rules of Azura’s Star, artifact enchantments (enchantments whose level is above 100) do not need to be recharged.

If no one in a party is able to recharge a weapon, they may need to find someone who will offer this service for a fee. The person may need to be convinced to take the time to do this depending on their personality, but for simplicity the following rules can be followed:

| Enchantment Level | Soul Gem Cost | Service Fee | Total |
| ----------------- | ------------- | ----------- | ----- |
| Up to 25          | 250           | 125         | 375   |
| Up to 45          | 500           | 250         | 750   |
| Up to 65          | 1000          | 500         | 1500  |
| Up to 85          | 2000          | 1000        | 3000  |
| Up to 100         | 3000          | 1500        | 4500  |
| Up to 105         | 3000*         | 2500*       | 6500* |

*Note that most mages may not have access to black soul gems or condone their use, and soul trapping humanoids is illegal in most places

If the character is able to bring the appropriate soul gem, the service fee still applies based on the enchantment level.

##### [[01. Enchanting Table|Enchanting Table]]
##### [[02. Effects|Effects]]
##### [[03. Soul Gems|List of Soul Gems and Locations]]