Shock, Fire, Frost, Poison: Deals damage of the specified type. See additional elemental damage type effects under Destruction in [[Table of Contents#VIII. Spells and Abilities|Section VIII]].

#### HR, MR, SR
Increases the final life regeneration rate per round by the specified value.

#### Magic, Fire, Frost, Shock Resist
Increases the final resistance to the specified damage type. Follows normal rules for maximum resistances.

#### Soul Trap
Number of rounds the target is affected by the Soul Trap effect. Targets dying within the duration fill the most applicable soul gem in range, preferably one owned by the wielder.

#### Absorb HP/MP/SP
Amount of damage dealt to the specified life stat. The wielder recovers the same amount to that life stat.

#### Banish
Otherwordly entities such as Daedra who fail a LCK save of the specified TN are banished back from whence they came.

#### Paralysis
Targets who fail an END save of the specified TN are paralyzed for one round.

#### Fear
Targets failing a CHA save of the specified TN suffer from the fear effect for one round.

#### Turn Undead
Undead failing a CHA save with a TN of the first number listed suffers from the fear effect for one round, and are burned for sun damage equal to the second number listed.

#### Fortify Skill
The chosen skill gains the specified bonus to all rolls while the enchanted item is worn or wielded.

#### Fortify Attribute
The chosen atttribute gains the specified bonus to all rolls, including saves and contests, while worn or wielded.

#### Tune Weapon
The wielder gains a bonus to skill rolls matching the type of weapon, and its base damage is increased by twice the specified amount.