### Accuracy
Increases Marksman skill rolls when using this weapon by the specified amount.
### Ammunition
Projectile Weaponry uses ammunition to operate. Bows require arrows and crossbows require bolts. Either weapon type can use any appropriate ammunition from their Tier or lower. The ammunition property designates the weapon as a projectile which does not gain bonuses from raises or effects unless otherwise stated. They can be wielded as a melee weapon, hitting within melee range on a raise or higher and dealing its damage. Both Marksman and One-Handed qualify as possible skill checks to attack with a projectile.
### Chain
Weapons made with chains or leather rope can carry a blade or mace head to a target with vicious force. Chain weapons deal damage based on the distance traveled to their target (written close/medium/long). At close range (5ft) the blade or mace head can be used as a melee weapon. At mid range(10-20ft) the momentum carried by the whip deals more damage. If the weapon extends to the target at long range (25-30ft), it reaches maximum velocity and deals even more damage. Making a ranged weapon attack with a chain whip also requires a lot of balance, and the wielder can only move up to half their pace on any turn they make a ranged weapon attack with one. Chain weapons do not take range penalties like projectile or thrown weapons but rather have a -3 to hit at medium range and -6 to hit at long range
### Fist Weapon
A bladed or blunt weapon meant to be held in hand and act as an extension of the wearer’s fist. These weapons do not gain bonus unarmed damage from perks such as Armored Brawler, and convey a -3 to any grappling or holding attempts made while wearing them.
### Loading
Some ranged weaponry require adequate time and strength to properly reload. Any weapon with the loading property requires an action or movement step to be used to load. Given the required concentration, loading a weapon with this property cannot be counted as part of the movement step while riding a mount.
### Loading, Heavy
Siege weapons require proper training to load and can be physically straining. In addition to the normal effects of the loading weapon property, weapons with this property have the following considerations. A character loading this weapon cannot take a bonus action in the same turn that it is being loaded. A character loading a weapon with this property must make a STR or Athletics check to reload, using their movement action. Otherwise, the user must also use their next available action as part of the reloading process.
### Off-Hand
Small enough weapons can be dual-wielded. Weapons with this property fulfill the requirement to be used in the non-dominant hand as well. An off-hand weapon can be used to make an attack as a bonus action, reducing its damage by half the base damage of the weapon on a hit.
### Ranged
Weapons that can be thrown or used to fire projectiles will have a range, denoted by  two or more numbers and separated with slashes. There are three levels of range: short, medium, and long. Weapons with two range numbers have only short and long range, while weapons with three range numbers have all three. At short range, there is no penalty for making attacks with the weapon. At medium range, the attacker must raise the defender’s TN or reaction to succeed their attack. At long range, this requires two raises. All weapons with the ranged property also have a minimum range of 5 ft, which imparts the same penalty as if attacking at medium range. Attacks performed beyond the maximum range automatically fail.
### Recharging
Artifacts crafted though the will of deities channel power from their source of creation. An item with recharging recharges the amount shown once every 24 hours after any charge was most recently used. This timer does not reset with subsequent uses after the first, only after 24 hours has been up and the item is not fully charged.
### Two-Handed
Weapons that are heavy and/or large enough that effective use requires both hands. In dire situations, a Strength check can be used to swing this weapon with a single hand with a TN based on the tier of the weapon. (Tier 1 - , Tier 2 - , Tier 3 - , Tier 4 - , Tier 5- , Tier 6 - .) A successful attack made this way deals the weapon’s base damage and sets the wielder off balance until the start of their next turn, unless the check is raised.
