Below are the list of materials required to create each standard armor and weapon. Included are the required smithing mastery to craft each item or set.

#### Basics

The recipes beginning in the next subsection require materials that will often be crafted from other raw materials. The list below will help the aspiring smith know how to convert from one to the next, and what equipment will be used. Most, if not all smithing requires a worktable as well, and this is assumed to be on hand. These are the listed equipments and their details:

**Clothier Station**: A work station with equipment necessary for taking fabrics and leathers to turn into clothes and armor. Often accompanied by tools such as sewing needles, a hammer, pliers, shears, and nails.

**Forge**: A complete forge needs an anvil, a hammer, tongs, some form of cooling liquid in a container, and the force itself to heat the metal. Be sure to always wear gloves and an apron for safety!  
**Loom**: A fantastic device perfect for processing raw fabrics as well as weaving cloth.

**Tanning Rack**: A curing station made to turn raw hides into leathers.

**Smelter**: A large, often metal device which melts and refines raw ore into ingots.

**Woodworking Station**: A workstable featuring a peddle saw and various tools such as a hammer, tongs, vice grips, pliers, nails, and a carving knife.

Prices and possible means of borrowing the above equipment can be found at the end of section VI under [[4. Crafting Equipment and Supplies|Crafting Equipment and Supplies]].

| Created Material    | Used Materials         | Equipment        |
| ------------------- | ---------------------- | ---------------- |
| Leather (x3)        | Pristine Pelt          | Tanning Rack     |
| Leather Strips (x4) | Leather                | Clothier Station |
| Cotton              | Raw Cotton (x2)        | Loom             |
| Iron Ingot          | Iron Ore               | Smelter          |
| Corundum Ingot      | Corundum Ore (x2)      | Smelter          |
| Spidersilk          | Raw Spidersilk (2)     | Loom             |
| Ionthread           | Raw Ironweed (2)       | Loom             |
| Steel Ingot         | Corundum Ore, Iron Ore | Smelter          |
| Silver Ingot        | Silver (x2)            | Smelter          |
| Dwarven Ingot (2)   | Dwarven Scrap          | Smelter          |
| Silverweave         | Raw Silverweed (x2)    | Loom             |
| Quicksilver Ingot   | Quicksilver Ore (x2)   | Smelter          |
| Refined Moonstone   | Moonstone Ore (x2)     | Smelter          |
| Orichalcum Ingot    | Orichalcum Ore (x2)    | Smelter          |
| Void Cloth          | Raw Void Bloom (x2)    | Loom             |
| Refined Malachite   | Raw Malachite (x2)     | Smelter          |
| Ebony Ingot         | Ebony Ore (x2)         | Smelter          |

A few notes on timing: 

- Tanning processes are often accelerated by simple herbs, which often carry magical properties in Tamriel. Though it would normally take 4-8 weeks to tan a hide, modern Tamrielic methods accomplish this in several days. A crafter with ample time in their day can prepare up to five pristine pelts to turn into leather within 2-3 days.  

- Cutting leather is a much faster matter. The 15 workable pieces of leather produced from a days worth of tanned hides can be shorn to size in a matter of hours.  

- Plant-based fabrics can be processed rather quickly on a loom. Each bundle takes half an hour to produce a spool of thread or cloth, so a crafter could be expected to make 16 spools in a single day.  

- Ores can take 10 hours to prepare for smelting and another 2-3 hours to tap the slag into molds. After a night of cooling, up to 10 ingots can be processed by a single smelting station and ready the next day.