Combat proceeds in the following phases:

1) [[01. Combat Phases#Surprise Round|Surprise Round]]
2) [[01. Combat Phases#Initiative|Initiative]]
3) [[01. Combat Phases#Combat Round|Combat Round]]
4) [[01. Combat Phases#Upkeep|Upkeep]]
5) Repeat (From 3)

### Surprise Round
In some cases, one party is able to take the other by surprise, beginning combat before their enemy is prepared. Most often this occurs when a character using their Stealth skill makes an attack on a target who has yet to detect them. This action initiates combat and is considered a surprise round. The attacker expends any stamina or magicka cost of their attack, and if undetected this attack cannot be reacted to. If the attacker is visible to their target during the surprise round, the target may make one reaction against the attack. Once this is resolved, combat proceeds to the initiative step.
### Initiative
Turn order is determined by initiative rolls. Each character rolls their Agility to determine their initiative. Everyone in combat then takes their turns in order of highest initiative first. In the event of a tie, the characters flip a coin to see who goes first or decide on their own. A round consists of a six second interval of time in which all characters in combat take their turn.
### Combat Round
Every round each character in combat can do a certain number of tasks both in and outside their turn. They are allowed a movement, action, reaction, and free action. Keep in mind that a round takes place over the course of 6 seconds.

During the movement step a character can move up to their pace on their turn, or up to twice their pace by taking a Sprinting action afterwards. Sprinting costs 5 stamina per 5 ft traveled beyond their pace in light or no armor. The cost increases to 10 stamina wearing medium armor and 15 stamina when wearing heavy armor. Sometimes a character will find themselves in difficult terrain, meaning for every two feet of pace spent, they only travel one foot. The most common occurrence of this is when within melee range of an enemy that is the same size, or one size smaller or larger than the character. The movement step can also be split up, for example with a pace of 30 they can choose to move 15 feet, perform an action, and then travel another 15 feet afterwards.

Actions are typically used to perform basic attacks, spells, or abilities. The action step can also be used as a sprinting movement as described above. Typically a character can use their action step to perform a single basic attack, power attack, spell, or ability.

The movement and action steps can also be spent to perform a certain number of tasks, such as any of the following:

-Using a key to unlock and open a door or chest

-Standing up from a prone position using half the character’s pace

-Searching through a bag and retrieving a small item such as a potion or scroll

-Using a small item already in hand

-Load a complex weapon such as a crossbow or ballista

-Recover from being off balance

-Switching between weapons

Bonus actions are rapidly performed tasks that are often similar to actions. These are taken on the character’s turn, and can be done before or after any action or movement. Only one bonus action can be performed in a single turn.

Reactions are often used outside the character’s turn order as a response to an attack directed at them. Evade is considered a reaction that takes up the reaction step of a character’s turn, as is Bash along with any abilities and spells that specify they can be used in the reaction step. Keep in mind that blocking counts as a free reaction, that is it can be performed any number of times during the round by using the reaction step.

Free actions are very quick actions that do not require much concentration to perform and can be done on or outside a character’s turn. Most free action spells and abilities will specify if they can be done outside a character’s turn. Powers and Shouts use up the free action step and can be performed at any time during the round. If two characters use such a free action at the same time, the one with higher initiative is resolved first. A character can only perform one free action in a round.
### Upkeep
Once every character who is able has completed their turn, the combat round ends. At this step any lingering damage effects such as poison or fire are resolved, and life stats recover by their regen rate. After this, a new combat round begins. Combat is resolved once the player characters or any enemies surrender, flee, or become unable to continue fighting.