There is a certain set of abilities that all player characters start the game already knowing. This basic set of actions and reactions are useful throughout the course of the campaign, being used to defend against attacks and create powerful combos.

Universal abilities include:
- [[02. Universal Abilities#Block|Block]]
- [[02. Universal Abilities#Evade|Evade]]
- [[02. Universal Abilities#Power Attack|Power Attack]]

### Block

Blocking allows a character to use a weapon or shield to take the brunt of an incoming attack at the cost of stamina. Blocking is considered a ‘free reaction’, meaning the reaction portion of a character’s reaction step can be used to perform any number of blocks. When using a shield, an attacker must succeed against the block roll by at least three raises to ignore the block. Likewise, an attacker must succeed against a weapon block by at least two raises to ignore its effect. Additionally, any block roll meeting or exceeding the attacker’s roll automatically gains a raise.

Shields all have a set of blocking dice, which are rolled just like a weapon’s damage dice. If a weapon is used to block, its blocking dice are equal to half its die pool and bonus. (a 4d20+10 weapon can block for 2d20+5 damage). The blocker rolls their dice and reduces that amount from the total damage dealt and spends stamina equal to half the damage blocked. If they have armor, the remaining damage is then reduced by their armor rating. Any attack that ignores armor also ignores the same amount of a shield’s blocking roll, or only requires one or more raises to ignore a weapon block. 

Shields can be used to block damaging spells, including area of effect spells, but only for half their blocking roll. A shield block performed against an area of effect attack is considered to forfeit the AGI save. A character cannot use a weapon to block a spell, and they must roll at least two raises to block a projectile such as an arrow or thrown weapon. 

The Martial Arts skill can be used for blocking against unarmed attacks using the character’s unarmed damage as the blocking pool and using half as much Stamina as the amount blocked. If the character has a martial weapon, all weapon blocking rules apply. However, the Martial Arts skill is used for the roll instead of Block.

For all blocks, weaknesses and resistances are applied after damage reduction from the block is calculated.

### Evade

Evade utilizes the reaction step to give the user a chance to completely dodge an incoming blow, taking no damage if they succeed. An evade uses the reaction step and generally can only be performed once per round. The base cost to evade is 50SP, though this number can be modified by armor, perks, spells, and abilities. The table below is provided as a reference for how the cost of Evade is affected by armor worn by the user.

| Armor Type        | Stamina Cost |
| ----------------- | ------------ |
| Light or no armor | 50           |
| Medium armor      | 70           |
| Heavy armor       | 90           |

When using evade, roll an evade skill check, adding a bonus equal to half of the character’s passive TN to hit (1/10th of AGI plus 1/10th of LCK). The evade check only needs to be higher than the incoming attack roll to succeed, and the evader can choose to move up to 1/5th of their pace when evading, rounded down to the nearest multiple of 5. A successful evade check avoids any incoming damage from the attack.

Area of effect attacks are much more difficult to evade. A standard Evade reaction cannot succeed against an AoE attack until it would bring the user outside of the area. If an Evade reaction succeeds and brings the user out of the area, the user does not take any damage.

### Power Attack

All physical and bound weapons can be used to perform a power attack as an action. The most useful application of this ability is that it can be used to knock an off balance enemy prone. Power attacks differ based on weapon type, see the following table for more information.

| Weapon Type | Stamina Cost | Effect                                                                                                                                                                  |
| ----------- | ------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Marksman    | 75           | Doubles the damage dice rolled by the attack. Medium ranged attacks can be done without range penalty, and long ranged attacks can be done at the medium range penalty. |
| One-handed  | 50           | Doubles the damage dice rolled by the attack made by the main hand weapon. Gains an additional +10 damage for every 25 levels of One-Handed Skill.                      |
| Thrown      | 50           | Doubles the damage dice rolled by the attack. Removes the range penalty for medium and long-ranged attacks.                                                             |
| Two-Handed  | 100          | Doubles the damage dice rolled by the attack. Gains an additional +20 damage for every 25 levels of Two-Handed                                                          |
