While riding atop a mount, such as a horse, a character gains impressive mobility. However, this requires both training and concentration to perform well in combat. The Athletics skill is used to determine a general proficiency in riding, assuming that the character has had proper training. 

A rider follows the following rules in combat:

- A mount must continue to travel in the direction of their heading at the end of their last turn. That is, a mount cannot change directions or stop suddenly on a dime.

- The rider may not use their movement action to perform tasks other than riding tasks

- Any Evade reactions by the rider must roll at least a raise to succeed, and they may not move while dodging.

- A rider may not use a Block reaction against an attack coming from their flank

- Melee weapon attacks and abilities performed by the rider can only hit targets to their immediate left or right as they pass

- Ranged weapon attacks and abilities, as well as spells, can only be aimed within a 180 degree arc in front of the rider, based on the direction they and their mount are traveling

A rider also gains the following passive effects:

- All weapon attacks, abilities, and spells make by the rider while traveling the full pace of their mount must be raised against for a reaction to succeed against them. This also means that the rider's attacking rolls can be up to a raise worth below the passive TN of the enemy and still succeed.

- Melee weapon attacks deal additional damage equal to the number of feet traveled to the target

- Melee weapon attacks and abilities aimed at the rider suffer a -4 penalty to hit while in motion, and a -2 while stationary

While mounted, a character may use their movement step for any of the following acts:

- Travel up to the mount's pace in a straight path, towards any single direction

- Make a turning maneuver based on the mount's turn rating. The turn radius is as follows, listed as forward x horizontal distance.  
  
	1 - 25ftx25ft  
	2 - 20ftx20ft  
	3 - 15ftx15ft  
	4 - 10ftx10ft  
	5 - 5ftx5ft.

A mount cannot travel more than their pace by making a turn. Any distance less than their pace from the maneuver is subtracted from the horizontal distance travelled.

- Make a U-turn maneuver, based on the mount's turn rating. The turn radius is as follows, listed as the distance traveled forward x distance horizontal from the starting position.  
  
	1 - 25ftx25ft at a TN of 4  
	2 - 20ftx20ft at a TN of 8  
	3 - 15ftx15ft at a TN of 12  
	4 - 10ftx10ft at a TN of 16  
	5 - 5ftx5ft at a TN of 22

Failing the TN places the mount off balance and completes a normal turn equal to the turn rating. Until the rider recovers, enemies no longer suffer penalties to hit the mounted target.

- Bring their mount to a halt, traveling a distance equal to the mount's braking distance before coming to a complete stop. The mount must travel in a straight line to do so.

The mount also has its own action step, and it can be used to perform any of the following feats during the rider's turn.

**Actions**:

- Make an attack or use an ability

- Leap over an obstacle in their path, given a running start

- Sprint, traveling up to twice their pace and spending 5 SP for every 5 feet travelled beyond their pace. A sprinting action can be made before a turning or U-turn maneuver, spending 5 SP for every 5 ft and using their movement to then perform the maneuver