Characters can wear a wide variety of armor to help mitigate damage, and each has an armor rating (AR). This rating reduces physical damage done to the character by a percentage equal to the AR (20AR=20% damage reduction) or by half as much from damaging spells (20AR reduces fire damage by 10%). The maximum attainable armor rating is 80, meaning any AR in excess of that number is ignored unless otherwise stated by a spell or ability. 

Armors can be cumbersome and will exacerbate the energy needs of sprinting. Sprinting costs 10 stamina per 5 ft traveled beyond their pace in light or no armor. The cost increases to 15 stamina wearing medium armor and 20 stamina when wearing heavy armor.

Armor is also typically louder than day-to-day clothes depending on the material and weight of the armor. Medium armors give only a -2 to Stealth rolls, while heavy armors give a -5.

Resistances to non-physical types of damage such as magic also generally have a maximum of 80. This means a character can have enchanted equipment to bring their Magic Resistance to 100, but will only reduce incoming magical damage by 80%. Some resistances are additive, such as magical and elemental resistance. A character with 50 Magic Resist and 25 Fire Resist will ignore a total of 75% of fire damage. However, the same maximum still applies. 

When a character has a weakness to a specific element and a resistance to magic, or vise versa, the difference is their overall resistance to the element, to a maximum of 80%. Someone with 75 Fire Resist and -100 Magic Resist will net a 25% weakness to spells causing fire damage, and take that much additional damage from them. 

Armor shields the user for half of any magical damage, rounded down to the nearest 5 place. This, in essence, adds half the user’s AR to their Magic Resist score.

Immunities are rare, but function as a 100% resistance, which overrides any starting values or acquired perks. An effect can still decrease this amount temporarily, but must account for starting resistances that the immunity would have otherwise overrode. However, starting weaknesses are not counted, as they were already cancelled by the immunity.

It is possible to gain a special type of resistance called Absorb, allowing the character a chance to absorb an incoming spell and replenish their magicka. Once the spell is confirmed to hit and before any damage is accounted for, the character rolls a d100 against their absorb chance. If they roll at or below, any spell effects are negated and they gain MP equal to half base cost of the spell. Damage from area of effect spells can be absorbed on indirect hits, but the spell still affects another other targets in range normally. The maximum absorb rating is 75, and any amount over is ignored much like armor and resistance caps. Any spell with the Non-resistible effect is assumed to ignore Absorb.

Another form of protection is a damage shield. For the duration of its effect, a damage shield protects from up to a certain amount of incoming damage. A 100 point damage shield, for example, could reduce a 235 damage hit to 135 damage. However, once the total point value of the shield is used in reducing damage, its effect ends. The damage shield is cumulative, rather than per attack. As another example, the 100 point damage shield could entirely absorb 30 physical damage from one attack and then reduce another attack from 100 to 30 afterwards, so long as the duration of the damage shield has not expired.

Disease and poisoning effects often require saves, though some creatures boast resistances to them. For either, all incoming damage is reduced by a percentage equal to the target’s resistance score. If the effect does not cause damage, the resist is rolled as a d100 against a successful hit. The effects are resisted if the target rolls above their resist score.