There are a number of conditions that a character can be bolstered or afflicted by, whether by magical or physical means.

### Bleeding
Some attacks and perks deal bleed damage. There is no effect that resists this type of damage, and it is always resolved in the Upkeep of any rounds the target is effective. The bleeding target subtracts it's health regen value from the bleed damage, and any beyond their heal rate deals damage to their health. ((If HR is 10 and the bleed is for 20, they take 10 damage))
### Blinded
Targets that are temporarily blinded cannot see for the duration of the effect. However their other senses and training may still pull them through. Any skill roll which requires sight reduces it's dice pool to one. Any Perception rolls are made with one die from the pool as well, and can only be based on hearing or smell. A blinded creature must succeed any reactions with at least one raise, and their TN to be hit uncontested is halved.

A character in total darkness, where there is conceivable light to see with, is considered blinded.

Some creatures are naturally blind, such as Falmer. There is some distinction between this and being blinded, and any creature with natural blindness will have different rules specified for them.
### Calmed
Typically caused by magical means, a creature that is calmed will not fight unless they are able to break free of the effect. They will otherwise act normally, but may use an action or movement step on their turn to roll an appropriate save against being calmed. A calmed creature can still take any reactions or other non-violent measures necessary to protect themselves from harm. If a calmed creature is successfully attacked or otherwise dealt damage, they automatically get to roll to save as a free action, with the TN reduced by 5.
### Chameleon
Chameleon is either natural or magical camouflage that reduces the chance to be detected on a successful Perception check by a certain percentage.A raise on Perception (using the chameleoned target’s Stealth mastery TN) reduces this to 75%, and a second raise reduces it to 60%. Even if detected, the one who has detected them can only tell general location and size. The effect of chameleon is not interrupted by interacting with objects or attacking. However an attacked enemy can tell the direction of the attack, and any objects picked up by the character remain visible.
### Charmed
Strong and old magicks can sometimes be used to create a powerful sense of trust and allegiance to the caster. A creature who is charmed treats the person who charmed them as a close confidante and trusted ally. Their personality remains unchanged, but they will act to aid the charmer in any way they can and will not lie to them. Someone who is charmed may fight for their newfound ally if it is in their nature but is not any more likely to harm themselves. They should attempt to stop any allies from attacking or otherwise harming the charmer.
### Fear
By magical means or natural terror, a creature with the Fear condition will flee the source as best they can. They will use all of their turn to run away or cower behind cover. The Fear effect can be contested using an action at the beginning of each turn after the initial failed CHA save, still requiring a save at the initial TN.
### Frenzy
Typically caused by magical means, a frenzied creature cannot distinguish between friend and foe, and will attack either at random. At the beginning of each turn after the initial failed CHA save, a frenzied creature may use a free action to attempt to reroll the appropriate save. If not, they must choose another target at random to attack. If at any time a frenzied creature botches their save, they must attack the nearest ally. The type of attack, spell, or ability to be used must be declared prior to any target selection. Otherwise, a simple attack with the most appropriate weapon or skill is assumed.

### Intoxicated
Typically this is a type of effect that should be handled more narratively, but since the drunken brawl or rare prank from a certain mischievous Prince do occur, intoxicated creatures suffer a -4 to all actions, contests, and saves that would require coordination or decision making. When moving, they must make an AGI save of 12 or travel a random amount of feet in a random direction.
### Invisibility
Typically this is a type of effect that should be handled more narratively, but since the drunken brawl or rare prank from a certain mischievous Prince do occur, intoxicated creatures suffer a -4 to all actions, contests, and saves that would require coordination or decision making. When moving, they must make an AGI save of 12 or travel a random amount of feet in a random direction.
### Knocked Prone
Typically this is a type of effect that should be handled more narratively, but since the drunken brawl or rare prank from a certain mischievous Prince do occur, intoxicated creatures suffer a -4 to all actions, contests, and saves that would require coordination or decision making. When moving, they must make an AGI save of 12 or travel a random amount of feet in a random direction.
### Low Light
Typically this is a type of effect that should be handled more narratively, but since the drunken brawl or rare prank from a certain mischievous Prince do occur, intoxicated creatures suffer a -4 to all actions, contests, and saves that would require coordination or decision making. When moving, they must make an AGI save of 12 or travel a random amount of feet in a random direction.
### Night Vision
Typically this is a type of effect that should be handled more narratively, but since the drunken brawl or rare prank from a certain mischievous Prince do occur, intoxicated creatures suffer a -4 to all actions, contests, and saves that would require coordination or decision making. When moving, they must make an AGI save of 12 or travel a random amount of feet in a random direction.
### Off Balance
The target loses their footing or gets the wind knocked out of them for one round, losing their passive TN bonus to Evade reactions. If they are struck by the Power Attack ability or any ability that would knock them off balance or prone, they are automatically knocked prone. An off balance creature can use its movement step to recover.
### Paralyzed
Paralyzing effects are incredibly powerful and typically only work for a short period of time. A character that is paralyzed locks in the position they were in immediately before the spell effect and is knocked prone. They continue holding any items in their possession, and any other spells that affect them remain active.

A paralyzed target is very vulnerable to attack. But with only 6 or 12 seconds in the midst of an intense battle, it may be difficult to say they could simply be killed and move on. Any other character can attempt to strike  the target with deadly force if they are within five feet (melee range). The attack is rolled uncontested and cannot be reacted to. The attacker is able to find an unarmored point to strike, and any damage dealt ignores the target’s armor.
### Stunned
A creature that is stunned is temporarily unable to act until they can break out of the stun. On their turn, they may use their movement or action to break free. When being targeted by an attack, ability, or spell,  a stunned target may forfeit their upcoming turn to break free and use a reaction against the attack if possible.