When casting a spell, the caster rolls the corresponding Skill against the spell’s TN (determined by its mastery level). In most cases, unless the spell is botched, a spell succeeds even when failing the TN as the character’s ability to cast the spell is not in question. Any spell which targets an enemy still must beat their passive TN or any reactions made against the spell in order to hit. A botched spell check still results in the caster utilizing the magicka that would have been necessary to cast the spell. However, the spell fizzles and otherwise fails.  
  
The TN therefore serves as a number which determines values for raises.

It is important to pay attention to the wording of spells. “Creature” can refer to undead, humans, elves, Argonians, Khajiit, wolves, constructs, or any other enemy that a character could be facing. The word “target” will appear in hostile spells to denote that the spell roll also counts as an attack roll, or spell attack roll. The spell attack roll must meet the target’s passive TN or exceed any contested Evade roll to successfully strike the target. Healing and other beneficial spells may refer to “target” to specify that only one creature is affected. However, the spell roll does not have to meet their passive TN to connect. The only other exception are cloaking spells, which do not require a passing TN to activate.

Hostile spells that avoid the word “target” are uncommon but purposeful. If “target” cannot be found in such a spell’s description, the spell succeeds in affecting the chosen creature so long as the spellcaster meets the spell’s TN.

Spells that use the terms “concentration” or phrase “concentrating on” are spells that the caster needs a certain level of focus to maintain. Only one such spell can be concentrated on at a time. When taking a reaction, being struck, or otherwise taking any damage, the spellcaster must succeed a saving throw using the related skill (Conjuration for a Conjuration spell, etc.) against the TN of its mastery to continue concentrating on its spell. Each subsequent hit or reaction requires the caster to raise that TN to maintain concentration.

### Area of Effect

There are spells that affect an area rather than a single creature. These most often include cone spells or radial spells. Cone spells originate from the spellcaster and cover and area that a line of the specified size could bisect the middle of, as shown below: ***

Radial spells can originate from the caster and travel all directions to create a circular pattern with the specified radius, as shown below: ***

Others may specify “target location” in which the caster picks a point to specify as the point of origin for the radius of the effect. Should the spellcaster fail to meet the casting TN of the spell, the projectile veers and strikes an area nearby. A d8 is rolled to determine the direction, and the projectile lands 10 ft away as depicted below: ***

For all area of effect spells, affected creatures succeeding an AGI save with a TN equal to the mastery of the spell take half damage. An evade reaction which would bring them out of the area of effect allows them to automatically succeed this save without a roll.