While Survival is also used to manage and find resources in the wild, it doubles as a crafting skill. A character can use Survival to prepare meals during times of rest, and if successful will provide their allies with bonuses based on the recipe. Recipes act much like abilities or spells in that they are picked by the player based on the character’s Survival level as it is raised to each mastery. The table below shows the maximum number of recipes that can be learned based on the character’s current mastery:

|     | Apprentice | Adept | Expert | Master |
| --- | ---------- | ----- | ------ | ------ |
| 25  | 1          | -     | -      | -      |
| 50  | 2          | 1     | -      | -      |
| 75  | 3          | 2     | 1      | -      |
| 100 | 3          | 3     | 2      | 1      |

For any given recipe there is a target range to successfully make it. The provisioner much roll at the mastery’s TN or above to achieve the recipe’s effect, and failing that the recipe is still made but does not impart any of its bonuses. Luckily the party still gets a decent meal out of this. Rolling very low gives the party food poisoning, and carries the opposite effect of the recipe. This decreases the maximum life stat or first roll by the same amount it would be gained. For example a Hearty Meal (shown in the recipe table) that gives food poisoning would decrease maximum health by 20%. At the same time a character can be struck with inspiration, preparing their recipe so that its effect is increased by half its original value The next table shows the ranges for each outcome based on mastery. Number given corresponds to the character’s Survival skill check:

| Recipe Mastery | Food Poisoning | No Effect | Base Effect | Inspiration Range |
| -------------- | -------------- | --------- | ----------- | ----------------- |
| Apprentice     | 2 or lower     | 3-7       | 8-17        | 18+               |
| Adept          | 3 or lower     | 4-8       | 9-23        | 24+               |
| Expert         | 3 or lower     | 4-14      | 15-29       | 30+               |
| Master         | 1              | 2-21      | 22-39       | 40+               |

##### [[01. Recipes and Ingredients|Recipes and Ingredients]]
